# T1562.001 - Impair Defenses: Disable or Modify Tools

## Hunt Tags

**ID:** T1562-WIN-001

**Last Modified:** 12/03/2021

**Author:** [FalconForce](https://falconforce.nl/)

**License:** [BSD 3-Clause License](https://github.com/FalconForceTeam/FalconFriday/blob/master/LICENSE)

**References:** [Link to medium post](https://medium.com/falconforce/falconfriday-av-manipulation-0xff0e-67ed4387f9ab?source=friends_link&sk=3c7c499797bbb4d74879e102ef3ecf8f)

## ATT&CK Tags

**Tactic:** Defense Evasion

**Technique:** Impair Defenses: Disable or Modify Tools (T1562.001)


## Technical description of the attack

Some attackers disabled the local security solution installed of their victim in order to get their implant to work. Although more
sophisticated attackers usually avoid such actions, it still happens a lot in the wild. This detection is aimed at finding sloppy attackers
that disable Defender AV using a few very common ways. This detection is aimed to be a early indicator of malicious activity. 

## Permission required to execute the technique

Administrator

## Detection description

The detection watches the commandline logs for known commands that are used to disable the Defender AV. This is based on research performed
by @olafhartong on a large sample of malware for varying purposes. Note that this detection is imperfect and only meant to serve as basis to build a more resillient detection rule. See the `Improvements` section below on which improvements we recommend you to implement. 

## Utilized Data Source
| Event ID | Event Name | Log Provider | ATT&CK Data Source |
|---------|---------|----------|---------|
| - | DeviceProcessEvents | DATP | Process monitoring |

## Hunt details

### KQL
**FP Rate:** *Low*

**Source:** *DATP*

**Description:** *See above*

**Query:**

```C#
let defendertampering=dynamic(["Set-MpPreference -DisableRealtimeMonitoring $true","sc stop WinDefend","sc delete WinDefend","Set-MpPreference -DisableBehaviorMonitoring $true","Set-MpPreference -ExclusionProcess", "Set-MpPreference -ExclusionExtension dll","net stop security center"]);
DeviceProcessEvents
| where ProcessCommandLine has_any (defendertampering)
// If you have a lot of FPs coming from JetBrains, you can use the line below 
//| where InitiatingProcessFolderPath !startswith @"c:\program files\jetbrains\" and InitiatingProcessVersionInfoProductName !~ ("Android Studio")
```

## Considerations

* Some software behaves weirdly, we've at least identified that JetBrains and Android Studio are behaving oddly. Not sure why, yet. Perhaps I should stop using JetBrains?
* Make the detection more resilient, currently the order of parameters matters. You don't want that for a production rule. See blogpost for more resilience considerations. 
* The current approach can easily be bypassed by not using the `powershell.exe` executable. Consider adding more ways to detect this behavior. 

## False Positives

* So far, we've only observed JetBrains software and Android Studio. 
* 

## Detection Blind Spots

* Usage of `System.Management.Automation.dll` for running powershell
* Modifying registry keys directly, without using powershell/cmd.
* Use of Win32 APIs to manipulate the services and setting of Defender AV. 

## References

* 
