Note: You are viewing an old, archived version of this content. The latest version is available in the ['main' branch](https://github.com/FalconForceTeam/FalconFriday/blob/main/0xFF-0088-Process_injection_via_QueueUserApcRemoteApiCall_by_rare_or_unsigned_processes-Win.md).

# Process_injection_via_QueueUserApcRemoteApiCall_by_rare_or_unsigned_processes

## Metadata

**ID:** Process_injection_via_QueueUserApcRemoteApiCall_by_rare_or_unsigned_processes

**OS:** WindowsEndpoint, WindowsServer

**FP Rate:** Low

**Author:** [FalconForce](https://falconforce.nl/)

**License:** [BSD 3-Clause License](https://github.com/FalconForceTeam/FalconFriday/blob/master/LICENSE)

**References:** [Link to medium post](https://medium.com/falconforce/falconfriday-process-injection-revisited-0xff0f-9ecfc8e0bae9?source=friends_link&sk=4f8a533e499842021f847bbd4d0c55fe)

---

## ATT&CK Tags

**Tactics:**
TA0004 - Privilege Escalation

| Technique | Subtechnique | Technique Name |
|---|---| --- |
| T1055 | 002 | Process Injection - Portable Executable Injection|

## Utilized Data Sources

| Log Provider | Event ID | Event Name | ATT&CK Data Source |
|---------|---------|----------|---------|
|MDE|DeviceEvents|||
---

## Technical description of the attack
​The query searches for unsigned processes with a low GlobalPrevalence that inject into other processes. This technique is commonly used by multiple attacker toolkits.


## Permission required to execute the technique
User

## Detection description
This rule detects the use of the QueueUserApcRemoteApiCall API call that is registered by MDE. The is a legitimate use for this, however when executed by a rare binary which is unsigned as well should be very uncommon.


## Considerations
Processes can be injected into in various different ways, this detection only focusses on the variant utilizing the QueueUserApcRemoteApiCall API call.


## False Positives
None expected.


## Suggested Response Actions
The process injection coming coming from the following sources will not be detected:
  - A DLL started by Rundll32.
  - A DLL which is hijacked, running inside a trusted process.
  - A COM object which lives inside a trusted process, such as dllhost.exe.
  - Using AppInit_DLL to load your malicious DLL inside a trusted process.
  - Use shims to load your malicious DLL inside a trusted process.


## Detection Blind Spots
When the GlobalPrevalence of the used tool is too high this detection will not pick it up, the same is true for software signed with a validiated certificate. Additionally, when an attacker injects into a valid signed and common process through another method they will hide in the common signals.


## References

---

## Detection

**Language:** Kusto

**Platform:** M365 Security

**Query:**
```C#
let timeframe = (24h);
let QueueUserApcRemote = DeviceEvents
| where Timestamp > ago(timeframe)
| where ActionType == "QueueUserApcRemoteApiCall"
| distinct InitiatingProcessSHA1
| invoke FileProfile(InitiatingProcessSHA1, 1000)
| where GlobalPrevalence < 1000 or isempty(GlobalPrevalence) or SoftwareName startswith "Microsoft Office";
DeviceEvents
| where Timestamp > ago(timeframe)
| where InitiatingProcessSHA1 in~ ((QueueUserApcRemote | project InitiatingProcessSHA1))
| join kind=leftouter QueueUserApcRemote on InitiatingProcessSHA1
// Customer tuning
```